and Russian President Vladimir Putin has
arrived in the United Arab Emirates for
a rare trip abroad it's his first time
visiting the Middle East since Russia
began its full-scale invasion of Ukraine
the uae's foreign minister greeted the
Russian president on his arrival Putin
then traveled on for talks with the UAE
president shik Muhammad bin Zed he held
the two countries current relations
saying they were at an unprecedented
High Putin will also visit Saudi Arabia
during the trip where he'll hold talk
with the country's de facto ruler
Muhammad bin
Salman DW's former Moscow bureau chief
Fury retto joins us from Ria DW being
banned from reporting from Russia Yuri
this is one of Putin's rare appearances
abroad tell us more about what's in
Focus well Russia maintains close
relations with both countries the United
Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia uh
according to the Kremlin in Saudi Arabia
Putin is going to talk with ground
Prince Muhammad bin Al Salman on trade
international politics and humanitarian
Aid um the issue of oil trading is very
important too um as we know eight oil
oil producing countries have reduced
their oil production from May in order
to maintain production at the lower
level until the end of the year to
stabilize the market uh so this is one
of the topics uh uh uh today also the
conflict between Israel and Hamas is on
the agenda for both meetings too and the
same time at the same time this visit
should be seen in the context of the uh
Russian internal politics uh of the
upcoming presidential elections in
Russia next year in March next year uh
Putin hasn't yet announced his candidacy
he may do so next week during his annual
press conference and of course this
visit abroad would help him improve his
image in Russia regardless regardless of
the results but y doesn't have to worry
about that International arrest
warrants well the Russian president is
traveling abroad only for the fifth time
since the international criminal court
issued an arrest warrant for him but uh
Putin doesn't risk to be arrested
because neither Saudi Arabia nor the
United Arab Emirates have ratified the
so-called Rome treaty which founds the
international criminal courts and that
means they wouldn't have to arrest him
uh in contrary to South Africa for
example we remember in July this year Mr
Putin skipped a summit there because of
fears he could be arrested so if nothing
unforeseeable happens Putin will make
this visit abroad as a politician who is
not only labeled as a warm time
president but also who is listened to at
least in the Arab world the other thing
is that Putin is in the Middle East at
the time of War at a time of war in Gaza
what what role has Russia played in this
conflict
well Russia seems to strengthen its
geopolitical position here in the Middle
East and yeah gain influence as a
mediator um Moscow has good relations
with Hamas which is considered a
terrorist group in most Western
countries but not in Russia uh where
Hamas uh regularly sends delegations to
uh in the end of October this year the
founder and political leader of the
group came to Moscow uh he met with the
RI Deputy Prime Minister before that
they both had a meeting in Qatar uh
Qatar is the preferred negotiator with
Hamas from the Western point of view but
it has been unable to find a basis for
another hostage exchange between Israel
and Palestinian group so I think Putin
has relatively little to lose by
intervening now uh during his visits uh
in in Qatar interesting stuff there from
our R bureau chief Yuri redo good
talking to you as always